# Reflective: E-Lit II

#### LARISSA MORIKAWA

## GOLDILOCKS IS QUAKING. 
	JUST RIGHT AIN'T RIGHT WHEN IT COMES TO VALUE. 

In the E-Lit II reading prep, I questioned the importance of the existence of a book. What's interesting about E-lit is that it's seemingly infinte. We often make the assumption that because they're digital and they exist in the internet and is published online, it will now most likely never be completely "lost"; as opposed to physical copies of books that may have only been printed a few times and distributed to a limited number of people. However, we saw examples where these assumptions are proven wrong. The power of the digital age and E-lit actually allows for books to have a definite fleeting existence. Books such as Agrippa which was written into a disk to "born-to-die" show the possibility of restricting the readers, distribution and existence of a work. Or on the other hand, although it may be a bit less intentional than Agrippa, we have First Screenings where it was not necessarily "born-to-die" but because of technology it suddenly had the "power" to completely sieze to exist. 

But intentional or not, I think it is worth exploring the idea of value in terms of existence. I notice that there is a sort of paradox in the "book world" when it comes to this theme. Take the decline of the library of Alexandria for example (may she rest in peace). Some people like to be dramatic and say that it burned down, some say that it probably just deteriorated over time with the purging of intelecturals, exile of the head librarian, etc. Either way, people say that a lot of valuable work was lost due to the library's decline. Are we saying that they are valuable because of their content or their historical meaning, their existence that once was but now isn't. We say rare books are valuable because they're "one of a kind" or because "only a few exist in the world". This is highlights the perspective that us humans have on scarcity and how we relate a numeric value of existence to its overall value. I.e. The first original copy of Agrippa is valuable because there aren't that many (if any) original disk copies left in the world. 

On the other hand, we can also say that popularity and the eternal existence of a book can also make it extremely valuable. For example, Romeo and Juliet, or more recently Harry Potter. These stories are so embedded within the Western culture and education and I don't think anyone would say that these aren't valuable works of writing. Yet we say this becuase "it will never die". It's very unlikely that society will completely lose access to these works or even forget about them. 

So, I guess I'm arguing that value stems from the extremes. When its the last of its kind or when its immortal, that's when a work will gain the most value. It has to either be too hot or too cold, just right is mediocre, normal and average.