# Reflective: DRAGON PRAYER BOOK

#### LARISSA MORIKAWA

## THE HIDDEN DRAGON UNDER NORTHEASTERN

I went to visit the dragon living under Northeastern for the second time today. She's unlike anything you'd imagine when people mention a dragon. Her wings are barely visible, she looks rather deformed, she's tiny and trapped in another animal's skin, bound into a book. The first time I met her it was completely coincidental. I walked into the Northeastern archives for class and sat in front of the smallest book I saw. I didn't think much of it. I opened it, saw the weird creature guarding the first page, flipped through and after realizing that there was no way I could read it, I closed the book and waited for class to start. In the next hour, I learned that in front of me not only did I have a medieval book dating back to the 1400s but I was handling Northeastern's oldest book in its collection. And that weird creature on the first page? A dragon. Or so they guess and hence the book got its name, The Dragon Prayer Book. 

No one knows for sure how it got to the shelves deep within the basement of Snell Library. It is assumed that it got there through a donation but since Northeastern didn't have a cataloging policy for the longest time, the book went unnoticed and left on a shelf. Until one day, Prof. Boeckeler visited the archives looking for manuscripts. The archivist at the time brought out the Dragon Prayer Book stating that she had no idea when or where it was from, but that it "looked old". Immediately, Prof. Boeckeler knew that it was a medieval manuscript. Since then, research on this book has been extensive, with people from various backgrounds contributing their skills to unravel the mystery that the Dragon Prayer Book holds. 

Today I was able to see the book again, but this time I had the opportunity to fully appreciate the content of the book. We participated in multiple challenges that allowed us to understand one of its passages. The first challenge was a matching game, where we had to try to match medieval-style letterform to its present counterpart. The second challenge, and my favorite one consisted of tracing the letterforms with a calligraphy pen. The third challenge was the hardest one to understand because it dealt with learning the abbreviations within the text. The last few challenged consisted of trying to decode a passage using the previous information we got. 

Decoding that prayer book was extremely challenging even with the alphabet guide was due to the abbreviations and special symbols (usually minuscule) that represented 2-4 letters at a time. One of the main reasons why this was done was to save space parchment space. Furthermore, they were able to do this because they knew that the readers knew the prayers well enough to make the right assumption as to what the abbreviated words meant. This made me think about how the values we place on certain things shape how we write. 

In the present day, it would be unthinkable to have an official document be written with abbreviations and colloquialism. We value the content more than the paper. During the time that this book was written, parchment was so valuable that they were able to prioritize the space on the parchment over religious content. These two values that people held shaped how books were written. Applying this same lens to the present time we can think about texts and text abbreviations. Why do we abbreviate words when writing? For example, "I don't know" becomes "IDK", "because" becomes "bc", "voice notes" turns into "vn", and so on. I believe that the focus has shifted from the value of the paper and religion to time. We abbreviate and make our words shorter due to convenience. The environment that we currently live in is much more fast-paced, and much of the value of things is correlated to time because it is the one thing that we haven't figured out how to make affordable. We've made paper and space affordable by using wood pulp and digital screens, but time remains the same. 