# Reflective: E Lit

#### LARISSA MORIKAWA

## 17776

This week the discussion mainly focused on Jon Bois' e-literature work, 17776 aka What Football Will Look Like in the Future. There were multiple aspects of this work that is worth exploring further. First, I found it interesting how it starts as a normal article, in a way, tricking the reader. There is that element of surprise and confusion that Jon Bois gives with his creation when all the letters start expanding until finally, it covers the entire screen in black. In class, we even discussed how some people thought that there was something wrong with the website or their computer and tried refreshing the page. I think this goes to show how conditioned we are to what "reading material" should look like or is. Even knowing that we were reading an e-lit material, most of us, including me, thought that there was a glitch in the system rather than immediately saying, "oh yeah, this is what it's supposed to do". 

I think that the element of normalcy is part of human nature. As humans, we like consistency and routine. Or at least we follow it. This side of us is also represented in 17776 where humans have become so bored with normal sports that by the year 17776, the rules have changed to include massive "fields" and long game times. An interesting comment that was made during the discussion about this normalcy was about the message that the author may be trying to convey with this part of the story. In 17776, humans have found a way to live forever, and so since they have infinite time, they get bored, really bored. Could it be that Bois is trying to tell us that us humans, as much as we try to defy death and live longer and longer, are not meant to live forever. It is our fleeting time that makes things exciting and worth living. Dying is part of being human. 

In the year 17776, objects have been able to gain a conscious and in the story, they seem "more human" than actual humans. A lot of people in class found this rather eerie and creepy, including me. The space probes who are leading the stories are watching humans play and judging them as if they were some kind of simple beings. I don't blame them though. The humans in the story seem rather insignificant and their lives pretty mundane. I think this ties back to the idea of 
"human-ness" and time. In a world where our health and lives aren't at stake, no new beings are being introduced, and people are forever interacting the with the same set of people... Sounds like some kind of modern dystopian novel story waiting to go wrong. And I think that is what gave this entire story a "creepy vibe" as it was described in the class discussion. Humans no longer being human. 

Another important component of 17776 to note is the multimedia aspect of it. I don't think that this e-lit work would have been able to present this story and create such a reaction towards it if it was just a traditional text. Or at least, it would have been much harder to do so. 17776 incorporates not only texts and graphics, but also gifs, youtube links, moving parts, calendars, and sounds. These all helped carry the story. For thought experiment purposes, I asked myself if there was one thing that I could add to this storytelling tool to "improve" it, what would it be? I went back to one of the comments Bois made about 17776 in early 2016, about how he based this story in 17776 because he wanted it to be in a year far enough in the future that "nobody ever thinks about it". That got me thinking, it would have been interested if somehow Bois had created a new storytelling medium and incorporated it in 17776. Because as much as we are reading about a story based in 17776, we are also using tools that only exist up until 2019. We aren't telling the story as it would be told in 17776. But then again, we're not in 17776 so we won't be able to tell it like we would if we were. But it was an interesting thought to explore. I think. 