# Reflective: BOOK ALTERITIES

#### LARISSA MORIKAWA

## ARTISTS BOOKS

On Wednesday, October 16 our class went back to the Northeastern library archives to look at artists books. One of my favorite one was S. by JJ Abrams. I found it incredibly curious and original yet still very much recognizable as a book. It was a story within a story within a story; much like a book-ception. Although, I did not have time to read the book, it's "bookness" made me think about it in comparison to the other artists books shown during that class. I noticed that the more an artist's book resembled a traditional "book", the less likely I was to consider it an artist's book. I will try to attempt to explain my thought process of this concept. 

If the book and artist's book scale was a horizontal gradient (Like an x axis with Artist's book being in the 0 position and other more "bookish" books towards the right. For the purposes of this thought experiment I will put a limit to the x axis at 30), the y axis would represents whatever a book is not. The farther you go from the intersection, the less similar it is to a book and closer to a "non"-book. I would say that S would be placed in this graph around (20,0). There is no doubt that S is a book, if anything, it would be easy to debate that it is more of a traditional book rather than an artist's book. I would place "Boundless", the unopenable, unreadable book at around (1.5,10). The concept itself (unreadable book) is a rather artistic and creative concept and no doubt an artist's book if anything. It has pages, bindings and words on it, sounds like a book. However, if we consider one of the key characteristics of books, which is for the book to be able to "be read", then it would make it less of a book and move it farther up on the y-axis. 

Why did I decide to put Artists' book at position (0,0) and connected to the y axis where the "non-book" scale starts? To be honest, there were some things in the archives that were considered "artist's books" that I did not think were books at all. For example, the 3D diorama/postcard looking work that depicted various Boston scenes. If that was presented outside of an English/Book Building class, I doubt that anyone would ever consider it a book. It is a work of art, but not a book. When I saw it I remember turning to my friend and asking him, "wait this is a book? do you think this is a book?" and he just shrugged and said, "I don't know. I wouldn't consider it a book, but I guess it is if the library says so." I would put that "book" at around (0,6). It's not a book, but it is art and if it is to be ever considered to resemble a "book" it would be an artists' book. 

I honestly don't have a conclusion to this thought experiment/reflection. I don't know what are the definitions that constitutes a book and that is why we discuss weekly about what a book is. I still haven't been able to completely open my mind to considering certain things as books, such as video games and the aforementioned artists' book. Maybe it is this barrier that I have to overcome to finally be able to understand what a book is to me. Or, it could be, that I need to build a broader barrier, and narrow down my definitions for a book. 