# Reflective: BINDING

#### LARISSA MORIKAWA

## The Value of the Container

We started the week with a discussion about the assigned readings for the week.  The discussion revolved mostly around Charles Chestnutt’s story, Baxter’s Procrustes and Zachary Petit’s article, Letterpress Goes for a Hike: The Printed Walk. One of the most intriguing parts about the discussion on Baxter’s Procrustes was the introduction of the idea that a book’s value would potentially lie in its appearance. In the story, the concept of valuing a book based on its material was meant to be a sort of satire. It highlights how superficial some people and perspectives can be. The age old saying, “don’t judge a book by its cover” is almost like a mandate in the literary world; the thought of someone judging a book by its appearance it rather unsettling because we are taught early on concepts such as “it’s the thought that matters” or “what’s inside/underneath is more important”.  We are taught to value ideas and concepts more than appearance. When Chestnutt writes, “to the true collector, a book is a work of art, of which the contents are no more important than the words of an opera” he wrote it in a sarcastic way; however, it might be worth exploring the possibility of this being true. Artists’ books are mostly dependent on its appearance/material. Its value is almost completely based on aesthetics and presentation. 	In Ricardo Dantas’ article about the book fiapo, we see how essential the physical qualities of this book are. A simple adventure story about a piece of lint was brought to light through its “container”. This concept of books being a “container” for stories and content was brought up frequently in our discussion. Mostly, we saw the “container” as being less important than the actual content that it held. Fiapo begs to differ. Special emphasis was placed on the creation of the physical aspect of the book in order for it to mirror the characteristics of the narrative and character; “lightness, delicacy, and naivety”.  The entire book was made of 100% cotton with high paper bulk to gave it a large volume but was still light weight. Additionally, this type of paper was highly textured and contributed to the sensory experience that they were trying to provide. For the binding, they designed the notion of continuity into it by binding it in a way that the book would always lay completely flat without mid-spread interruptions. 	Often times, even during our class discussion, we are very quick to dismiss the importance of physical appearances. It is commonly considered to be “superficial” or “materialistic” when judging things based on their appearance of material and these often hold a negative connotation. Take the previously mentioned story , Baxter’s Procrustes, for example. The entire story revolved around the criticism of “materialistic” people, who only valued the physical qualities of Baxter’s book. The physical aspects of books, in my opinion, can often times be essential, as shown through fiapo. It’s a component of storytelling. What even is a book without a so called “container”? In my opinion, a book is the complete work, including the content/story/text and the “container” in which is it presented through. Valuing the “container” shouldn’t have a negative connotation. It is through this “container” that the story is being transmitted and shared; it is an essential part of a book. 