# Reflective: ZINES

#### LARISSA MORIKAWA

## DON'T JUDGE THE WORK BY ITS MEDIA (?)  

Before reading the assigned articles for "Zine" week, I thought of zines as trivial crafts made by people as a hobby. Just a few pieces of paper folded and stapled, containing no meaningful or significant content. After the readings, I came to see them as something much more powerful; a vehicle of intense thought, artistry, opinions and "serious" work. I felt rather ignorant for disregarding zines and the value of professional writers such as Pagan Kennedy. It wasn't until I flipped through Giordana's zine collection that I came to understand zines as an all-encompassing form of expression. It didn't have to be well thought out, opinionated and incredibly artistic, nor was it always sloppy and badly made. It was a type of publication. And as cliche as it sounds, the value of a zine wasn't and shouldn't be defined by what it was, but what it said. It made me think about the role of the "medium" in determining the value of a certain something. In order to explore this thought further, I thought about the different art media. Let's say I have a three friends draw a portrait of me, all equally artistically talented. One paints using oil paint, the other one uses acrylic paint and the other uses a ball point pen to put my face onto a canvas. Already, I am making assumptions about the value and/or quality of these paintings. Without even looking at the work of art itself, my mind has unconsciously valued the oil painting the highest, then the acrylic paint piece, and lastly the ball point pen piece. This is me associating the characteristics and value of the medium with the actual work of art. It's my notion of the media that overshadows the content that is being presented. The same idea can be applied to my previous judgment of zines and written content in general. Compare a leather bound book, magazine and a blog post. It's quite obvious which one people would think is of greater value or hold better writing. All because of our notion of what a "proper" written content should look like or involve. What Pagan was publishing in her zines weren't necessarily "lower-quality" writing, nor was it "unprofessional". The media doesn't necessarily define nor represent the quality of the content. And as obvious as that sounds, it isn't something that is readily remembered. As I wrote that sentence I was thinking to myself, "gosh, that sounds so cheesy and so dumb". But I actually forgot that. I was judging works based on their media before even considering their content. I guess covers aren't the only things being judged in the literary world.