# Reading Prep: PRINT I

#### LARISSA MORIKAWA

## Questions or Observations

1. Does/Would the appeal of letterpress printing be lost if the "time" component was lost? How important is the role of the actual design and aesthetic of old letterpress printing designs?
 /
The revival of letterpress can be attributed to the "digital fatigue" and the "allure of the handmade". In the recent times we see society turning towards "antiques" and "vintage" design and objects. There's something about an object being "old" that attracts people to it. Quoting from the INKBOTDESIGN article, "The uniqueness of the technique and the vintage effect that it has, made letterpress printing famous again after the invention of so many more natural printing methods". It might be due to the fact that back in the day, producing a piece of work required more time, and care and therefore, there seems to be more meaning to the object than if it was mass produced by an impersonal machine. Based on the WIRED reading we know that modern letterpress is not entirely a trip back to antique methods. We have made letterpress work more efficiently by implementing new technology to it, such as the photopolymer. So does the fact that we use these modern techniques and technologies affect the "allure" of the letterpress?
2. Is the "essence" of letterpressing different if there are no "imperfections" to the printed product? Do we value both works the same because of the concept, or by the process by with a final product is produce? In other words, is it the same if I letterpress a book using a computer designed template rather than a human designed/carved template? Imagine you had two books that were printed through letterpress; however, one book shows evidence of "old school" letterpressing such as imperfections in the ink distribution, slight differences in font letter and sizes, margins, etc while the other one is essentially perfect in design and production because it was all calculated and made to show consistency using a computer. Would one of these book be more representative of what a "letterpressed" book is?
3. Could one of the reasons why we are so inclined to going back to the letterpress be due to the normalization of modern printed works? Just like the Economist article mentioned "digital fatigue" being a possible reason for the renaissance of old fashion printing, could "normalization fatigue" also be a reason? Personally, I find it interesting when I notice something that is usually taken for granted due to it being SO obvious that it is often overlooked. This concept is discussed in the Atlantic article in relation to negative space and spacing between our words. To us, it is so obvious that we don't really tend to think about why it was created or how it was created, but once we notice it, we find it quite curious. Could this feeling of "newness" of something that isn't really "new" related to why we go back to past such as with the letterpress? 
