# Reading Prep: WEEK NAME

#### YOUR NAME

## Questions or Observations

1. "Especially intricate characters - such as Chinese hanzi and Japanese kanji - activate motor regions in the brain involved in forming those characters on paper: The brain literally goes through the motions of writing when weading, even if the hands are empty." - Ferris Jabr in "The Reading Brain in the Digital Age: The Science of Paper versus Screens". This quote made me think about how people who read different languages read differently. It is something that I noticed one day when I was talking to my mom. She still has trouble reading in Spanish, even after 25 years of living in Paraguay. I never understood why it was so hard for her to read when she knows how to read Japanese and Chinese. There are over 1000 characters in the Chinese language yet she had a hard time reading with just 26 letters. She then told me that we're wired to read differently. She's wired to read by recognition of specific characters, but I'm wired to read through patters and combinations. In other words, it's easy for her to read Chinese because for her, every letter means a specific thing and they're unique, while I interpret words by how letters are combined and "interacting" with each other. 
2. "The Internet may cause our minds to wander off, and yet a quick look at the history of books suggests that we have been wandering off all along." "The quality of digital media poses one kind of problem for the reading brain; the quantity of information available to the wired reader poses a different and more serious problem. But it's worth noting that readers have faced this problem before, too." One reason we recognize "good books" is through education. In school we are taught what the classics are and what is considered "good writing". Would this type of education work with technology? Is it what we need to be able to recognize and filter out the "good sources" of writing? 
3. "What Football Will Look Like in the Future" - Jon Bois. I was immediately sucked into Bois' story. It was incredibly interesting. Once I finished reading it I asked myself the questions I constantly ask constantly, "Is this a book?". Having discussed the fluid meaning of books and the different formats that books can come in in class, I would say that this could be considered a book. However, would the public consider this a book? What differenciates this from a blog? or a video game? or a script? 

